I mean often in life we think we're
doing one thing for one reason but we're
actually doing it for a totally
different reason and often that other
reason is
unflattering um you know we we claim to
be do doing something out of moral
concern but it's very quickly revealed
with two seconds of thought to be coming
from Envy or Revenge I mean this is like
human psychology oneon-one is that
sometimes we're even blind to our own
pretexts so more and more I I I think
about political projects as pretextual
uh because the the the contradictions
you know so often reveal themselves so
for for example um ibram kendi is you
know his whole book is about equal
results and uh the idea that you know if
black people are 13% of the population
black people should be 13% of people in
prison and no more 133% % of the wealth
13% of the teachers 133% of the nurses
13% of every single domain you and he he
is apparently very consistent about this
and uh um and that's his worldview okay
so putting putting that to the side take
it at face
value why is it that someone like him
and uh the people he disagrees with have
never once and I really mean never once
highlighted all the domains in which
white Americans are underrepresented in
good things or are or over represented
in bad things so for example suicide no
small issue white Americans much more
likely to die of suicide than black
Americans um in my alcoholism too
alcoholism and drunk driving in my in my
book I list nine different diseases that
white people are more likely to die of
now is my point that white people are on
the whole worse off than black people no
that's a total it's nothing to do with
what I'm saying what what I'm saying is
that if your philosophy at a deep level
were about equal results for equal races
then you would expect someone like him
to highlight those disparities as well
right if it were about disparity as such
now understanding that so much of human
behavior is a pretext for more base
motives what does it tell you that they
only ever care about the disparities
that black people are on the worst end
of I think that the whole
Equity uh uh campaign is a pretext for
what is at base just you know black and
brown identity
politics that that's all it is it's it's
my group it's I like my group and I want
us to advance to equal or even greater
than other
groups America's Healthcare System is
lacking in any real care insurance
companies regularly deny Progressive
treatment options primary care
physicians refuse to order comprehensive
lab work and the standards of care lag
years behind the leading research that's
where meric health comes in mer Health
represents a paradigm shift in how we
approach medicine the Premier Health
optimization platform mer Health
empowers you to maximize your longevity
and performance with the confidence that
comes from having experts in your back
pocket they offer Cutting Edge
diagnostic labs concierge Health
coaching and expert clinical oversight
they help you achieve your health and
fitness goals by leveraging datadriven
lifestyle and nutrition recommendations
along with supplement and prescription
treatment options if you're listening to
this show then you're probably a
proponent of taking your health into
your own hands that's why we've teamed
up with mer Health to offer a turnkey
optimization package designed for those
who want to maximize their performance
and Longevity with the most elaborate
testing on the market you'll receive
extensive lab work thorough lab reports
video calls with Merck's Health experts
and expedited onboarding go to mer
health.com Peterson and use code
Peterson to get the same panel and
medical oversight I get and save 10% at
checkout that's mer health.com Peterson
and use code Peterson
checkout when we're speaking about
pretexts like there are layers of
pretext and I I think it's and I'm
interested in your view I think it's I'm
going to make a case that I like my
group better because that's to my
advantage and I can cover that Advantage
by claiming um what would you say moral
superiority as an avatar of my racial
Community that's right so it's like yeah
it's my race first but not really it's
me see I see this with the activist
types all the time it's like the trans
Community well first of all no it's not
a community by any stretch of the
imagination by any standards and you're
actually not a representative you're
just happen to be a member of that group
and no one's given you the power to do
the negotiating or the speaking on
behalf of your community and you're
clearly doing it only for your own
narcissistic Advantage you know and this
is a very complicated thing to sort
through right because that rejoinder
could be thrown back at either of us you
know I could say well the reason that
you're promoting colorblindness is
because you have a book and now you're
on this podcast you're you know sawing
the fiddle with regards to the sales of
your book and it's all about you it's a
very dismal worldview to assume that all
human motivation can be boiled down to
you know narrow
self aggrandisement and I I certainly
don't think it's true in any regard but
it's definitely the case that much of
what we see that's political is a
pretext for something that's deeper and
I'm at the deepest levels too I think
it's not only
self-aggrandisement that's at the root
of let's say the demand for Equity it's
also an envy and resentment that's
rapacious Beyond Comprehension there's
no satisfying that demand I mean all you
have to do is think about it technically
for a minute it's like
okay apart from the issues you brought
up right which is that there's all sorts
of situations like the feminists never
complain about the dir of women in Brick
laying for example it's always the SE
sweet and so so you just see that
everywhere it's like okay well how black
do you have to be before the equity
distribution kicks in like and and what
are we going to do are we going to are
we going to DNA test everyone I think my
wife is 3% African-American I can't
remember if that's the case it's
something like so she's more black than
Elizabeth Warren was Native American
when she claimed to be Native American
well well there you there you there well
but but you know that begs the question
is like well is this a genetic identity
and if it's not a genetic identity well
is it one you can just adopt that's the
Rachel what was her name donel doelle
yeah problem doelle doelle right right
it's like well if it's not if it's
racial is it genetic and if it's not
genetic is it cultural and of course the
leftists insist that everything is
cultural so how the hell do you define
black and the answer is well it doesn't
matter because that's not the issue
right the fact that that leads to all
sorts of logical contradictions and
could never be implemented is completely
irrelevant to the to the game that's to
the power game that's being played no
and so how do you know how do you know
let let's let's take that apart you can
ask me too like how do you know that
you're not doing exactly what you accuse
in some ways you accuse dangelo and
kendi of doing like you know you're
you've been successful for quite a long
time and you've been successful in part
because you focused on racial issues
now so that's what I the harshest of
critics could say and I'm sure that sort
of thing has been said to you like how
do you
personally it's very worthwhile to be
attuned to your own shortcomings
absolutely and to not note that there's
good rationale for your there's always a
rationalization at hand to put a moral
gloss on your comparative success it's
like what what do you have do you think
in check that helps you
stay on the straight narrow path yep so
I think the the only way you can really
tell uh from the outside is whether
someone sticks to their positions when
it doesn't benefit them and this is what
you can say I mean this is the what
separates Someone Like Bernie Sanders
he's the quintessential example of this
from many people that hold his position
is whatever you want to say about Bernie
Sanders he could be a total total Satan
in in your world worldview he was saying
all of the things he was saying today
when it benefited him not at all when
when really all all it all you know
decades ago he was just such a such an
outlier that um he really saw very
little benefit politically and uh from
what he was saying and he just continued
saying it right uh whereas you know
virtual you know someone like kamla
Harris you know nobody knows what she
actually thinks because she has
flip-flopped on every issue just in the
past month she was against the death
penalty then she was for it and then she
you know so she seems much more like an
empty vessel who will say whatever she
has to say to get to the next rung uh
and many politicians are like that I
don't mean to single out KLA Harris but
you know what I can say for myself and I
think any of my close friends would
vouch for this is before I had any
public profile before I was a writer uh
of any kind I was My Friends by talking
about these same issues when all it did
was like get me a reputation for being
the uh well frankly at Columbia got me a
reputation for being some kind of
right-winger which I I never have been
so when when it was only really a minus
in my life I still represented what I
believed uh 100% And of course from the
outside there's no way to verify that
but it's true so well there's some
there's some ways there is some ways of
verifying that because you know we could
look into the details of your
autobiographical history and I think you
have put your finger on on something
that's relevant I mean one of the ways
we do evaluate people for their moral
propriety and reliability is their
consistency during times of distress
[Music]
am